Qualified trained brothers and sisters are needed everywhere within God's organization today.
We need them to preach the good news. We need them here at World Headquarters.
We need them at branch offices all around the world. We need them on construction projects,
as well as in our own local congregations.
Well, that means that we all need to think about what we personally can do to train others.
It also means, of course, that we need to be ready to be trained.
We need to open our minds and hearts so that we can accept training, so that we can become more valuable to Jehovah.
But when it comes to being trainers, our Heavenly Father, Jehovah, sets the most beautiful example for us.
Really a perfect example in being a trainer.
And this morning, I thought it would be good for us to consider just for a few moments how we can imitate Jehovah
as a trainer.
Now, in John chapter 5 in verse 20, Jesus drew attention to how Jehovah trained him personally.
And in that one little verse, we can learn three important lessons about training.
So let's give it our attention.
Would you open your Bibles? Let's read together a John chapter 5 and verse 20.
Now, you notice it says, for the Father has affection for the Son and shows him all the things he himself does.
And he will show him works greater than these so that you may marvel.
Well, now let's go back over this verse and see if we can find these three different lessons that we can learn about Jehovah as a trainer.
What's the first one? Well, Jehovah trains others because he loves them.
Do you see what Jesus said for the Father has affection for the Son?
When how is training and expression of love for others?
Well, of course, training allows individuals to gain the experience that they need in order to be effective in their work,
to be productive, and of course, if you're effective and productive, well, how do you feel?
Well, of course, you have real joy.
We think back to what Proverbs chapter 8 and verse 30 says when it describes Jesus as the master worker.
Do you remember what it says there?
It says, I was the one he was especially fond of day by day.
I rejoiced before him all the time.
Well, why?
Why could Jesus rejoice all the time before his Heavenly Father?
Well, he had been well-trained to do the work that Jehovah had instructed him to do.
Well, when we give training to our brothers and our sisters when they give new assignments and new jobs
so that they can be effective in their work, well, they rejoice too.
But have you ever had the other experience?
Have you ever been given a new assignment and you've not received adequate training?
Well, immediately, what could have been a joy becomes a terrible trial?
Because you may not know how to accomplish the task that's been set before you.
Well, we can overcome that by showing love to the people that we're training, helping them,
so that they can be very effective in their task.
Well, what's the challenge that may occur here?
Many of us have years of experience in doing our jobs and doing the work that we do either at Bethel or in the congregation.
And it means that we have to resist the temptation to take on all the responsibility ourselves
or to want to do all the work ourselves.
We need to allow younger people to be included.
We have to allow them to learn and to benefit from our experience so that they can grow up
and take on more responsibility.
If we're being honest, we have far more work than we can possibly accomplish in our own might and strength.
And so love moves us to train others so that they can help.
Do you remember what Jethro said to Moses in Exodus chapter 18 and verse 18?
He said, you will surely wear out both you and this people who are with you.
Because this is too big a load for you and you cannot carry it by yourself.
Well, that's true.
And so it's not just love of others that moves us to train.
It's even love of self, isn't it?
Because if we don't train others, we will give out.
We won't be able to carry the load personally.
What's the second lesson that we learned from John 520?
Well, look at that second expression.
Jesus said, and shows him all the things he himself does.
Well, what's the point?
Well, obviously, Jehovah took the time to show Christ Jesus all the things that he himself does.
We want to work closely with others and we want to show them all the things that we know,
all of the things that we've come to learn.
And this lesson is not just applied by Jehovah when he deals directly with one person like he did with Jesus,
but this kind of thinking governs all of the dealings that Jehovah has with mankind.
Take, for example, Exodus chapter 35 and verse 30.
Now, look at this example.
Now, here, the work of the construction of the tabernacle had to move forward.
Now, how did Jehovah choose to handle it?
Let's look.
Then Moses said to the Israelites,
See, Jehovah has chosen Bezilell, the son of Uri, the son of her of the tribe of Judah.
He has filled him with the spirit of God, giving him wisdom, understanding, and knowledge of every sort of craftsmanship,
for making artistic designs, for working with gold, silver, and copper,
for cutting and setting stones, and for making all kinds of artistic wood products.
Now, in this regard, insight volume one, commenting on this verse, these verses,
says that Jehovah used his Holy Spirit to increase and sharpen the abilities of Bezilell and a Holiab.
But now, did Jehovah use that same Holy Spirit to increase the abilities of all of the workers who would work on the project?
No, instead, what did he do?
Now, look at verse 34.
It says, and he has put into his heart to what?
To teach, he and a Holiab, the son of a Hisomac of the tribe of Dan.
So, Jehovah not only gave Bezilell and a Holiab abilities with craftsmanship,
but he also gave them the ability to teach others.
Now, brothers, what if you have developed some skill or some particular knowledge in some areas of the work?
Learn from the example of Bezilell and a Holiab.
Give the credit, give the glory to Jehovah for what you know.
But honor Jehovah by teaching and training others to do all of the things that you're able to do.
Now, for example, what if you're an Overserat Bethel or you're an elder in the congregation?
How wise you are if you take a moment and ask yourself,
are there tasks that I'm presently caring for that I don't need to do personally?
Could my assistant or some other brother care for these assignments?
Well, now that's true at Bethel, but it's also true in the congregation.
We want our brothers who are moving ahead to feel that they have a place in the congregation,
that they're being trained.
This is true even of our young ones.
You know, sometimes the elders in the congregation can be so inventive in thinking of little assignments
that can be given to our young children who have the potential in the future to take on more responsibility.
And how does it make those young ones feel?
Well, they just look forward so much to coming to the Kingdom Hall because they feel they have a place.
Well, now what's the third lesson that we can learn from John 520?
It says, and he will show him works greater than these.
Now, what can we draw out of those few words?
Well, Jehovah trained Jesus with the thought of him taking on greater responsibility in the future.
Well, we want to do the same.
We want to help others to be able to grow and take on larger responsibility in the future.
For example, do you ask yourself questions like this?
Who has the potential to be the next overseer, or the next assistant overseer, or the next crew leader,
or the next ministerial servant, or the next elder?
And if they're to have those assignments, what training do they need right now so that they can reach those goals?
We want to imitate Jehovah, and we want to look for opportunities so that we can help younger ones
to move ahead so that in the future they can take on those larger responsibilities.
You know, back in 1936, Brother Brotherford received a letter from a brother.
This is what it says. This is a letter we have in our files.
It says, my dear sir, my son Milton will be 19 in August, and would like to work in the factory of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society.
He'll be glad to work at any assignment that has given him.
Thank you for your kindness in the past. Yours very truly, Herman Henshel.
Well now, when Brother Brotherford got that letter about this 19-year-old young man named Milton,
well, did he foresee all the things that Milton Henshel would accomplish in his lifetime?
Well, maybe not.
But someone had the good sense to train that young man so that in time he could take on a large amount of responsibility
and even serve as a member of the governing body.
Well, Brother, what do we learn?
If we're motivated by love to train others, if we work closely with them, to teach them all the things that we know,
and if we train them with a view to taking on more responsibility, then we will be imitators of our Heavenly Father Jehovah
and will be directly involved in filling the need for qualified men and women that exists around the world.